Exposure of Krylov Method for Frequency-Sweep Harmonic Analysis (#1490)
pyansys/pymapdl: doc/source/user_guide/krylov.rst

=======================================

> Harmonic Analysis via the Krylov Method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Harmonic analysis via the krylov method
```

> Harmonic analysis via the krylov method

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Harmonic analysis using the Krylov method
```

> =======================================
> Harmonic analysis via the krylov method
> =======================================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=========================================
Harmonic analysis using the Krylov method
=====================--===================
```

Reviewer 2: Google developer's style guide says to avoid using "via" in the documentation.

Introduction
============

> You can use the frequency-sweep Krylov method for a high performance solution of forced-frequency simulations 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the frequency sweep Krylov method for a high-performance solution of forced-frequency simulations 
```

Reviewer 2: I removed the hyphen here in frequency sweep Krylov method because it was not present in the major of uses. We need to use the term consistently.

in acoustic or single-field structural analyses.

> Similar to the full harmonic analysis, the frequency sweep Krylov method also uses the full system matrices 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to the full harmonic analysis, the frequency-sweep Krylov method also uses the full system matrices 
```

to compute the harmonic response. While the full method solves the full system matrices at every frequency point 
in the frequency range, the frequency-sweep Krylov method performs the following steps to approximate the response 

> across the frequency range :

Reviewer: I would like a bit more of references here about the theoretical background.

> Similar to the full harmonic analysis, the frequency sweep Krylov method also uses the full system matrices 
> to compute the harmonic response. While the full method solves the full system matrices at every frequency point 
> in the frequency range, the frequency-sweep Krylov method performs the following steps to approximate the response 
> across the frequency range :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to the full harmonic analysis, the frequency sweep Krylov method uses full system matrices 
to compute the harmonic response. While the full method solves the full system matrices at every frequency point 
in the frequency range, the frequency sweep Krylov method performs the following steps to approximate the response across the frequency range:
```

Reviewer 2: There is so many occurrences of "full" in the preceding sentences that I feel that readability is reduced. Are they all needed?

Author: removed "full" from parts of the sentence to improve readability.

> * Builds a Krylov subspace set of vectors at the frequency value in the middle of the requested frequency range,
> * Reduces the system matrices and loading on the entire frequency range,
> * Solves the reduced system, and
> * Expands the results back to compute the harmonic response. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Builds a Krylov subspace set of vectors at the frequency value in the middle of the requested frequency range
* Reduces the system matrices and loading on the entire frequency range
* Solves the reduced system
* Expands the results back to compute the harmonic response 
```

> MAPDL provides the following methods to implement a harmonic analysis using the Krylov Method:
> 
> #. Via Mechanical APDL commands.
> #. Via macros, a feature described in *Frequency-Sweep Harmonic Analysis via the Krylov Method* in the *Structural Analysis Guide*.
> #. PyMAPDL implementation of the macros, a feature described here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MAPDL provides the following ways to implement a harmonic analysis using the Krylov Method:

#. Via Mechanical APDL commands. You can use APDL macros as described in *Frequency-Sweep Harmonic Analysis via the Krylov Method* in the *Structural Analysis Guide*.
#. PyMAPDL. Use Python programming language to expose the Krylov features as described here.
```

Author: Line 24 changed to "#. PyMAPDL. You can use the Python programming language to expose the Krylov features as described in this section."

Author: I would like to retain that MAPDL has 2 different methods to do this :
something like this :
"MAPDL provides the following ways to implement a harmonic analysis using the Krylov method:
#. Mechanical APDL commands.
#. APDL macros as described in "Frequency-Sweep Harmonic Analysis via the Krylov Method" in the *Structural Analysis Guide*.
#. PyMAPDL. You can use the Python programming language to expose the Krylov features as described in this section.
"

Assumptions
-----------

> The following assumptions are made in the Krylov solution obtained using this method :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following assumptions are made in the Krylov solution obtained using this method:
```

Reviewer 2: The sentence is line 28 is not clear to me. Does "using this method" refer to the Kylov method? Can the sentence be rewritten to "The following assumptions are made when using the Kylov method to obtain the solution:"

* The stiffness, mass, and damping matrices are assumed to be constant (independent of frequency).

* The external load vector is linearly ramped over frequency. Ramping assumes that the frequency at 
  which the Krylov subspace is built is in the middle of the frequency range. If you wish to apply 
  stepped loading, there is an option to specify that in the inputs for the 

>   :func:`KrylovSolver.krysolve() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krysolve>` method.

Reviewer: Very nice to include the `:func:` !

> Krylov : PyMAPDL implementation
> ===============================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Krylov method implementation in PyMADL
==================================
```

Reviewer 2: Krylov is an adjective and shouldn't be used as a noun. (I assume the noun would refer to a person.)

> The PyMAPDL implementation gives the user customization and flexibility in terms of accessing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The PyMAPDL implementation of the Kylov method gives you customization and flexibility in terms of accessing
```

> the subspace vectors and reduced solutions in the python format for defining user defined routines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the subspace vectors and reduced solutions using python programming language for defining user defined routines.
```

> If you do not require customization, you can use the simpler using APDL commands to solve a harmonic analysis 
> with the Krylov method.

Reviewer: I would say the opposite!
```suggestion
If you do require customization, you can use the simpler using APDL commands to build and solve the harmonic analysis using the Krylov method in a customized way.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't know which of you is correct, but we need to do something about the "you can use the simpler using APDL commands" portion!

Author: Changed to :
"If you do not require customization, you can use the APDL commands to solve a harmonic analysis 
with the Krylov method."

Author: @germa89 what I Intend to convey in this statement is that user can switch to std apdl way of solve if they do not require customization.
By customization I mean to say the flexibility of the user to use pymadl to modify the subspace or vectors before running each of the steps on krylov.

 
The procedure described here implements an analysis identical to that defined by the macros.

> Details on the theory and equations describing the Krylov method can be found in the works of Puri [1]_ and Eser [2]_ .

Reviewer: References! Good, I would like to see them earlier please.

Reviewer: Well.. not necessary these ones. These references are for implementation, which can be different from the references for theory background which should be presented earlier.

Author: APDL structural Analysis Guide has a good theory documentation of this method .
Added links to this on the doc.

The exposure in PyMAPDL follows the same the same theory as the apdl macro and has the following methods:

* :func:`KrylovSolver.krygensub() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krygensub>` Creates the Krylov subspace. 
* :func:`KrylovSolver.krysolve() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krysolve>` Solves the reduced system of equations.

> * :func:`KrylovSolver.kryexpand() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.kryexpand>` Expands the Krylov subspace.

Reviewer: Loving it.

> * :func:`KrylovSolver.krygensub() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krygensub>` Creates the Krylov subspace. 
> * :func:`KrylovSolver.krysolve() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krysolve>` Solves the reduced system of equations.
> * :func:`KrylovSolver.kryexpand() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.kryexpand>` Expands the Krylov subspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :func:`KrylovSolver.krygensub() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krygensub>`: Creates the Krylov subspace. 
* :func:`KrylovSolver.krysolve() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krysolve>`: Solves the reduced system of equations.
* :func:`KrylovSolver.kryexpand() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.kryexpand>`: Expands the Krylov subspace.
```

.. warning:: These methods must be run consecutively.

Usage

> =====

Reviewer: I like this section

> Generate the full file (``.full``) for Krylov method using Mechanical APDL:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generate the full file (``.full``) for the Krylov method using Mechanical APDL:
```

.. code:: py

    >>> from ansys.mapdl.core import launch_mapdl
    
    >>> mapdl = launch_mapdl()
    >>> mapdl.prep7()

> 	# Generate the FEA model (mesh, constraints, loads, etc.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	# Generate the FEA model (mesh, constraints, loads)
```

  # ...

    >>> mapdl.run("/SOLU")
    >>> mapdl.antype("HARMIC")  # HARMONIC ANALYSIS
    >>> mapdl.hropt("KRYLOV")

>     >>> mapdl.eqslv("SPARSE")

Reviewer: There is a command to turn off distributed processing, you might consider it to add it here.

I dont remember the name of the command though.

Reviewer: Forget about this, I had a conversation with @mikerife  and he didn't recommend to use it because the command (btw it is ``RESWRITE``) does append the results, not write them.

    >>> mapdl.harfrq(0,1000)  # Set beginning and ending frequency
    >>> mapdl.nsubst(100)  # Set the number of frequency increments
    >>> mapdl.wrfull(1)  # GENERATE .FULL FILE AND STOP
    >>> mapdl.solve()

>     >>> mapdl.finish()

Reviewer: I would propose to do a function out of this. Something like:

```py
kk = mapdl.krylov()
kk.solve() # which include all these ``antype``, ``hropt``, etc
```

I will do something about it, and I will ping you

Reviewer: we could add ``kk.solve_modal()``, but I think better leave that for another PR.

> Create Instance of the Krylov Class
> -----------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an instance of the Krylov class
----------------------------------------
```

.. code:: py
    
    >>> mk = mapdl.krylov

> Call the :func:`krygensub <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krygensub>` method which creates the Krylov subspace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Call the :func:`krygensub <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krygensub>` method to create the Krylov subspace:
```

> Build a subspace of Size / Dimension 10 and at a frequency of 500 Hz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build a subspace of size/dimension 10 and at a frequency of 500 Hz.
```

Reviewer 2: Is the "and" needed inline 90 at "and at a ...". It seems awkward.

Author: changed to "Build a subspace of size/dimension 10 at a frequency of 500 Hz."

.. code:: py

    >>> Qz = mk.krygensub(10, 500, True, True)

Return the Krylov subspace
--------------------------

> Call the :func:`krysolve <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krysolve>` method which reduces system of equations and solve at each frequency:
> Solve from 0 Hz to 1000 Hz with 100 intervals in between, with stepped loading   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Call the :func:`krysolve <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.krysolve>` method, which reduces the
system of equations, and then solve at each frequency. The following code solves from 0 Hz to 1000 Hz with
100 intervals in between, with stepped loading.
```

.. code:: py

    >>> Yz = mk.krysolve(0, 1000, 100, 1, True)

Return the Reduced solution over Frequency range
------------------------------------------------
            

> Call the :func:`kryexpand <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.kryexpand>` method which expand the reduced solution back to FE space:
> Output the expanded solution and calculate residual.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Call the :func:`kryexpand <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.kryexpand>` method, which expands the reduced solution back to FE space. Output the expanded solution and calculate the residual.   
```

.. code:: py

>     >>> res = mk.kryexpand(True, 3)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    >>> results = mk.kryexpand(True, 3)
```

> Return Ndarray (if out_key = True) solution vectors mapped to User order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It returns a :class:`numpy array<numpy.ndarray>` (if the kwarg ``out_key`` js set to ``True``) solution vectors mapped to ...
```

This needs clarification

Author: corrected

> .. note:: The Ndarray returned by the method ``kryexpand`` contains the node number along with dof solution,
>           for each of the calculated frequency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: The ``ndarray`` returned by the method ``kryexpand`` contains the node number along with the dof solution
          for each of the calculated frequencies.
```

Reviewer 2: I think "dof" in line 120 needs to be defined (or at least I don't know what it means). It's possible your users understand "dof" though.

Get the dof solution at a specific frequency

> --------------------------------------------
> 
> .. code:: py
> 
>    # Get the nodal solution at freq number 3``````
>    >>> node_order = res[2]['node'] # Get the nodal order   
>    >>> for node_num in node_order:
>    >>> 	   nodal_sol = res[2][node_num]['x'] # Get the nodal solution for each node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--------------------------------------------
To get the nodal solution at a specific frequency or step you can do:

.. code:: py

   # Get the nodal solution at freq number 3``````
   >>> freq = 3
   >>> node_order = res[freq-1]['node'] # Get the nodal order   
   >>> for node_num in node_order:
   >>> 	   nodal_sol = res[freq-1][node_num]['x'] # Get the nodal solution for each node
```

Example
=======

> Examples of using the krylov PyMAPDL are available in :ref:`krylov_example`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Examples of using the Krylov method in PyMAPDL are available in :ref:`krylov_example`.
```

Requirements
============

> To use ``krylov`` feature, you need to meet the following requirements:
> 
> * ANSYS MAPDL version should be 2022R2 or newer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the Kyylov method in PyMAPDL, these requirements must be met:

* Ansys MAPDL version 2022 R2 or later
```

Reviewer 2: Are other requirements to be added? A list should only be used if there are two or more entries.

> .. warning:: This feature is not supported in Distributed ANSYS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning:: This feature does not support Distributed ANSYS. 
    However you can still run MAPDL Math commands without specifying the ``-smp`` flag when
    launching MAPDL.
```

Reference
=========

> For additional details, for the krylov method refer the `APDL Docummentation Manual 
> <https://ansysproducthelpqa.win.ansys.com/account/secured?returnurl=/Views/Secured/corp/v231/en/ans_str/str_Krysweep.html>`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on the Krylov method, see the `APDL Documentation Manual 
<https://ansysproducthelpqa.win.ansys.com/account/secured?returnurl=/Views/Secured/corp/v231/en/ans_str/str_Krysweep.html>`_.
```

Reviewer 2: This original link is a topic in the QA version (and not the production version) of the Ansys Help.
@germa89 The production version for an Ansys release isn't available until just before FCA--and the QA version isn't accessible to external users. **If we can link to the Ansys help**, we will have to work out how the v222 in the edited link is somehow a variable that gets updated to the latest released version so we don't have to update such links manually. @kmkoshy For now, be sure that any link you insert is to the latest released version in the production help.

Author: updated Ansys help link to v222 production version.

   Krylov Method" in the *Structural Analysis Guide*.
#. PyMAPDL. You can use the Python programming language to expose the Krylov
   features as described in this section.

Assumptions
-----------
The following assumptions are made when using the Kylov PyMAPDL method
to obtain the solution:

* The stiffness, mass, and damping matrices are assumed to be constant
  (independent of frequency).

* The external load vector is linearly ramped over frequency. Ramping
  assumes that the frequency at which the Krylov subspace is built is
  in the middle of the frequency range. If you want to apply stepped loading,
  there is an option to specify that in the inputs for the 
  :func:`KrylovSolver.solve() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.solve>`
  method.

Krylov method implementation in PyMADL
======================================
The PyMAPDL implementation of the Kylov method gives you customization
and flexibility because you can access subspace vectors and reduced
solutions using the Python programming language for user-defined routines.

If you do not require customization, you can use the APDL commands to
solve a harmonic analysis with the Krylov method.

> More information on the theory of Krylov method can be found on 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information on the theory of Krylov method can be found in 
```

`Structural Analysis Guide 
<https://ansyshelp.ansys.com/account/secured?returnurl=/Views/Secured/corp/v222/en/ans_str/Hlp_G_STR4_4.html>`_. 
The procedure described here implements an analysis identical to that 
defined by the macros. Details on the theory and equations describing 

> the Krylov method can be found in the works of Puri [1]_ and Eser [2]_ .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Krylov method can be found in the works of Puri [1]_ and Eser [2]_.
```

  Creates the Krylov subspace. 
* :func:`KrylovSolver.solve() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.solve>` 
  Solves the reduced system of equations.
* :func:`KrylovSolver.expand() <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.expand>`
  Expands the Krylov subspace.

.. warning:: These methods must be run consecutively.

Usage
=====

Generate the full file (``.full``) for the Krylov method using Mechanical APDL:

.. code:: py

    >>> from ansys.mapdl.core import launch_mapdl
    
    >>> mapdl = launch_mapdl()
    >>> mapdl.prep7()

	# Generate the FEA model (mesh, constraints, loads)
  # ...

    >>> mapdl.run("/SOLU")
    >>> mapdl.antype("HARMIC")  # HARMONIC ANALYSIS
    >>> mapdl.hropt("KRYLOV")
    >>> mapdl.eqslv("SPARSE")
    >>> mapdl.harfrq(0,1000)  # Set beginning and ending frequency
    >>> mapdl.nsubst(100)  # Set the number of frequency increments
    >>> mapdl.wrfull(1)  # GENERATE .FULL FILE AND STOP
    >>> mapdl.solve()
    >>> mapdl.finish()

Create an instance of the Krylov class
--------------------------------------

.. code:: py
    
    >>> mk = mapdl.krylov

Call the 
:func:`gensubspace <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.gensubspace>`

> method which creates the Krylov subspace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
method to create the Krylov subspace:
```

> Build a subspace of Size / Dimension 10 and at a frequency of 500 Hz.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Build a subspace of size/dimension 10 at a frequency of 500 Hz.
```

.. code:: py

    >>> Qz = mk.gensubspace(10, 500, True, True)

Return the Krylov subspace
--------------------------

> Call the :func:`solve <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.solve>` method,
> which reduces the system of equations, and then solve at each frequency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Call the :func:`solve <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.solve>` method to
reduce the system of equations and then solve at each frequency.
```

The following code solves from 0 Hz
to 1000 Hz with 100 intervals in between, with stepped loading.

.. code:: py

    >>> Yz = mk.solve(0, 1000, 100, 1, True)

Return the reduced solution over the frequency range
----------------------------------------------------
            

> Call the :func:`expand <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.expand>` method,
> which expands the reduced solution back to FE space. Output the expanded

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Call the :func:`expand <ansys.mapdl.core.krylov.KrylovSolver.expand>` method
to expand the reduced solution back to FE space. Output the expanded
```

solution and calculate the residual.   

.. code:: py

    >>> result = mk.expand(True, 3)

It returns a :class:`numpy array<numpy.ndarray>` (if the kwarg ``out_key``

> is set to ``True``) solution vectors mapped to User order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is set to ``True``) solution vectors mapped to user order.
```
